.TH SPIDER 1 "2026-06-29" "Hellhound Spider v13.19" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
spider \- SPA and non-SPA web crawler, endpoint discoverer, and attack-surface mapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spider
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fITARGET\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B spider
is a web application crawler and attack-surface mapper for offensive
security assessments, bug bounty hunting, and CTF challenges. It
performs a full-spectrum reconnaissance pass against a target, combining
passive crawling, active probing, and multi-source intelligence gathering
into a single run.
.PP
During a scan,
.B spider
follows links, parses forms and JavaScript, renders single-page
applications via a headless browser, mines the Wayback Machine and
certificate transparency logs, and probes for admin panels, sensitive
files, GraphQL and OpenAPI endpoints, and directories from a
user-supplied wordlist. Every discovered URL is recorded with its HTTP
method, confidence level, and observed parameters.
.PP
The output includes a structured JSON report and a colour-coded
terminal summary covering: response headers and missing security
controls, TLS posture, detected technology stack, robots.txt and
sitemap findings, Wayback-archived endpoints, HTML and JS comment leaks,
a full parameter map per endpoint, authentication-walled paths, security
findings (GraphQL introspection, CORS, source maps, exposed secrets),
and intelligence classifications (admin panels, authentication
endpoints, unauthenticated APIs, sensitive data sources, legacy
interfaces, and file upload points). When a CTF flag format is supplied
via
.BR \-K ,
matched flags are surfaced in a dedicated section at the top of the
findings.
.PP
\fITARGET\fR is the base URL of the application to scan, e.g.
.IR https://example.com .
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Scan Options"
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-depth " " \fIN\fR
Maximum crawl depth (default: 4).
.TP
.BR \-W ", " \-\-delay " " \fIS\fR
Fixed delay between requests per host, in seconds (default: 0, adaptive).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-concurrency " " \fIN\fR
Number of concurrent crawl workers (default: 12).
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " " \fIS\fR
Per-request timeout in seconds (default: 15).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show all discovery logs, including low-confidence and informational events.
.SS "Authentication"
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-cookie " " \fICOOKIE\fR
Cookie string (e.g. \fB"session=42"\fR), dict-style string, or path to a cookie
file. Used to scan authenticated areas of the application. Since the spider does
not support automated form-login using username and password, you must manually
log in via a browser and supply the session cookie here.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-auth " " \fIHEADER\fR
Authorization header value, e.g. \fB"Bearer eyJ..."\fR.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-basic\-auth " " \fIUSER:PASS\fR
HTTP Basic Access Authentication credentials, e.g. \fBadmin:password\fR. Note that
this is for server-level basic authentication, not standard web login forms.
.TP
.BR \-X ", " \-\-header " " \fI"NAME: VALUE"\fR
Custom HTTP header, repeatable. Pass custom headers formatted as \fB"Name: Value"\fR.
Useful for program-required tester identification or custom tokens.
.SS "Output"
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-out " " \fIFILE\fR
Write an additional copy of the report to \fIFILE\fR. A JSON report is
always saved automatically regardless of this option.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format " " "{json,jsonl,csv,burp,urls,nuclei}"
Extra output format for the report written to \fB\-\-out\fR
(default: \fBjson\fR).
.SS "Feature Flags"
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-no\-playwright
Disable headless browser SPA scanning. Without this flag, \fBspider\fR
attempts patchright, then playwright-stealth, then falls back to manual
JavaScript analysis.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-probe
Enable intelligent probing phase (extra method-discovery requests per
endpoint). Off by default.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-admin\-probe
Probe common admin/management panel paths. Off by default.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-sensitive\-probe
Probe known sensitive file paths (.env, .git, backups, etc.). Off by default.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-wayback
Query the Wayback Machine for archived URLs. Off by default.
.TP
.BR \-I ", " \-\-spa\-interact
Enable SPA form filling and button clicking during headless browser
scanning. Only use against targets you are authorized to test, as this
performs active interactions with the application.
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-no\-cors
Disable CORS misconfiguration checks.
.TP
.BR \-G ", " \-\-no\-graphql
Disable GraphQL introspection probing.
.TP
.BR \-O ", " \-\-no\-openapi
Disable OpenAPI / Swagger discovery.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-extract
Enable passive data extraction of emails, IP addresses, and cloud storage
bucket references found in crawled content.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-screenshot " " [\fIPRESET\fR]
Capture screenshots of key endpoints. \fIPRESET\fR may be one of:
\fBall\fR, \fBstandard\fR, \fBblocked\fR, \fBerrors\fR, \fBapi\fR,
\fBadmin\fR, or a regular expression matching endpoint URLs. Defaults to
\fBstandard\fR if no preset is given.
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-no\-filter
Disable the noise-path filter, including VCS browser UI paths, CDN asset
paths, and socket.io endpoints in the output.
.TP
.BR \-N ", " \-\-no\-crawl
Skip BFS link crawling entirely. Only the recon and probe modules run:
robots.txt and sitemap parsing, admin panel probing, sensitive file
probing, wordlist-based discovery (\fB\-\-wordlist\fR), subdomain
enumeration (\fB\-\-subdomains\fR), and Wayback Machine history mining.
Useful for fast, targeted reconnaissance without traversing the site's
link graph.
.SS "Scope"
.TP
.BR \-\-subdomains
Enable subdomain enumeration via certificate transparency logs.
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-follow\-subdomains
Crawl discovered subdomains within the base domain.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-follow\-redirects
Follow cross-host redirects and add the destination host to scope.
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-scope " " \fIHOSTS\fR
Comma-separated list of additional hosts to include in scope, e.g.
\fBapi.target.com,cdn.target.com\fR.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-wordlist " " \fIFILE\fR
Path to a newline-separated wordlist of directory and file names. Each
entry is requested against the target; responses are filtered through the
same soft-404 and canary-fingerprint logic used for sensitive-file
detection, so only meaningful hits are reported. Combine with
\fB\-\-no\-crawl\fR for a discovery-only pass.
.SS "CTF"
.TP
.BR \-K ", " \-\-ctf\-flag " " \fITEMPLATE\fR
Flag format template to scan for across all crawled content (HTML, JS,
CSS, JSON responses, error pages, and comments). Use \fB{}\fR as the
placeholder for the flag body. Multiple formats may be given
comma-separated, e.g. \fBflag{},ctf{}\fR.
.SS "Utilities"
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-diff " " \fIOLD_REPORT\fR
Diff the results of this scan against a previous JSON report, highlighting
new, removed, and changed endpoints.
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-har " " \fIHAR_FILE\fR
Import a browser HAR session file to seed the scan with authenticated or
otherwise hard-to-reach requests captured during manual browsing.
.TP
.BR \-U ", " \-\-upgrade
Upgrade \fBspider\fR to the latest version.
.SS "General"
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show a summary of command-line options and exit.
.SH OUTPUT
.B spider
always writes a JSON report to the working directory, named after the
target host and scan timestamp. The on-screen summary includes:
.PP
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
response headers and missing security headers
.IP \(bu 3
TLS/certificate findings
.IP \(bu 3
detected technology stack
.IP \(bu 3
robots.txt disallowed paths and discovered endpoints
.IP \(bu 3
a parameter map of query, form, and runtime parameters per endpoint
.IP \(bu 3
authentication-walled endpoints
.IP \(bu 3
intelligence classifications: admin panels, IDOR candidates, file upload
endpoints, authentication endpoints, unauthenticated APIs, sensitive data
sources, and legacy/deprecated endpoints
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Scan a target with default settings:
.B spider http://target.example
.TP
Authenticated scan using a session cookie:
.B spider \-C "PHPSESSID=abc123" http://target.example
.TP
Recon-only pass with a custom wordlist, no link crawling:
.B spider \-N \-\-wordlist ~/wordlists/common.txt http://target.example
.TP
Full reconnaissance including subdomain enumeration, no crawl:
.B spider \-N \-\-subdomains \-\-wordlist ~/wordlists/common.txt http://target.example
.TP
SPA scan with headless browser interaction enabled:
.B spider \-I https://app.example
.TP
Import a HAR capture and diff against a previous report:
.B spider \-H session.har \-D previous_report.json http://target.example
.SH FILES
.TP
.I spider_<host>_<timestamp>.json
Auto-saved JSON report for each scan.
.SH AUTHOR
.B spider
was written by L4ZZ3RJ0D and is part of the Hellhound Pentest framework (https://github.com/project-hellhound-org).
